# OffensiveRezzer

OffensiveRezzer is a tool designed to perform black-box fuzzing on Web API applications that implement a RESTful API architecture. 
The main feature of OffensiveRezzer is testing the implementation of input validation mechanisms in Web APIs. 
The types of errors that OffensiveRezzer tries to exploit are `missing required`, `invalid type`, and `constraint violation`. 
For the `missing required` error, OffensiveRezzer will delete several fields from the input data. 
Then, for `invalid type` error, OffensiveRezzer will change the data types of several fields in the input data. 
For example, if an input field requires a string data type, OffensiveRezzer will send input with a different data type, for example, an integer, object, or array. 
Finally, for the `constraint violation` error, OffensiveRezzer will send input data that does not comply with a field's maximum and minimum limits.

OffensiveRezzer relies heavily on application specifications written in swagger/OpenAPI format to generate fuzzing payloads. The more complete the specification data, 
the better the fuzzing payload generated by OffensiveRezzer. Currently, OffensiveRezzer only supports the OpenAPI v3 format.

Currently, OffensiveRezzer is still in the early prototype stage and is still being actively developed. 
In this initial version, OffensiveRezzer still has some limitations, such as it cannot send fuzzing requests to endpoints **that require** `authentication`. 
If you need a mature fuzzing tool, you can try several other fuzzing tools such as [EvoMaster](https://github.com/EMResearch/EvoMaster), [Restler](https://github.com/microsoft/restler-fuzzer), 
[RestTestGen](https://github.com/SeUniVr/RestTestGen), [Schemathesis](https://github.com/schemathesis/schemathesis), and [Tcases](https://github.com/Cornutum/tcases).

## Current Features

- Perform fuzzing scenarios using the GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE methods.
- Generate fuzzing payloads (missing required, invalid type, and constraint violation) for the `request body` and the `query parameters`.

## Todo (in order of priority)
- [x] Supports fuzzing scenarios for endpoints **that contain** path parameters.
- [x] Supports fuzzing scenarios for endpoint inter-dependencies. For example, to perform effective fuzzing on endpoints that require path parameters, such as endpoints to update individual resources, OffensiveRezzer will try to create a new resource first and then perform fuzzing based on the identifier obtained from the new resource.
- [ ] Supports creating fuzzing payloads for path parameters.
- [ ] Supports authentication in fuzzing scenarios, both in headers and cookies.
- [ ] Supports fuzzing scenarios using payload examples in the specification.
- [ ] Supports automatic creation of unit test scripts based on fuzzing results so that fuzzing scenarios can be replicated or replayed. The resulting unit tests will then be written in various formats that can be selected, such as JUnit (Java), Jest (JavaScript), and XUnit (C#).
- [ ] Supports fuzzing scenarios for SQL Injection and Stored XSS.
- [ ] Supports fuzzing scenarios for other communication architectures such as GraphQL and RPC.
- [ ] Rewrite the tool using a high-performance language such as Java or Go.
- [ ] And more...

## How to Run (Locally)
1. Install [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org) version 20.9 or higher. You can also install NodeJs using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or [nvm for Windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows) if you already have NodeJs in a different version.
2. Clone this repository.
3. Run command `npm install`.
4. Create a `.env` file, then copy and paste the contents of the `.env.example` file into the `.env` file. `MAX_ITER` is a variable that must be defined with an integer value where `MAX_ITER` indicates how many fuzzing iterations will be performed. `TARGET_URL` is an optional variable that, if defined, the `TARGET_URL` value will replace the server URL in the OpenAPI specification file.
5. In the project root directory, create a new directory with the name `api-spec`, then place the OpenAPI specification for the application that will be the fuzzing target into the `api-spec` directory with the file name `openapi.json`.
6. Run command `npm start` to perform fuzzing.

## How to Run (Docker)
1. Clone this repository.
2. Create a `.env` file, then copy and paste the contents of the `.env.example` file into the `.env` file. `MAX_ITER` is a variable that must be defined with an integer value where `MAX_ITER` indicates how many fuzzing iterations will be performed. `TARGET_URL` is an optional variable that, if defined, the `TARGET_URL` value will replace the server URL in the OpenAPI specification file.
3. In the project root directory, create a new directory with the name `api-spec`, then place the OpenAPI specification for the application that will be the fuzzing target into the `api-spec` directory with the file name `openapi.json`.
4. Run command `docker compose build` to create OffensiveRezzer image.
5. Run command `docker compose up` to perform fuzzing.

## Output
- OffensiveRezzer will generate a report in the `output/report.json` directory after performing a fuzzing session. The resulting report contains information on each endpoint followed by various status codes found on that endpoint, payload/param information sent to the endpoint, and the response received from the server.
- If an unexpected error occurs when running OffensiveRezzer, the error will be logged in the `output/error.log` directory. Please report the error by creating an issue in this repository.
